Custom Channels (#710)
SUSE/doc-susemanager: modules/administration/pages/custom-channels.adoc

[[custom-channel]]
= Custom Channels

While {productname} provides all required channels, you might find it useful to create custom channels specific to your environment.
{productname} Administrators and Channel Administrators have channel management authority, which gives them the ability to create and manage their own custom channels.

Before you create a custom channel, determine which base channel you want to associate it with, and which repositories you want to use for content.

This section gives more detail on how to create, administer, and delete custom channels.

== Creating Custom Channels

If you have custom software packages that you need to install on your {productname} systems, you can create a custom child channel to manage them.
You will need to create the channel in the {productname} {webui} and create a repository for the packages, before assigning the channel to your systems.

You can select a vendor channel as the base channel if you want to use packages provided by a vendor.
Alternatively, select ``none`` to make your custom channel a base channel.

> If you include a package with [systemitem]``-release`` at the end of the package name in your channel, it will be automatically installed when the channel is installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you include a package with [systemitem]``-release`` at the end of the package name in your channel, it will be automatically installed when the channel is assigned.
```

> If you include a package with [systemitem]``-release`` at the end of the package name in your channel, it will be automatically installed when the channel is installed.

Reviewer 2: This is wrong. The algorithm to find packages which contain a product and are automatically installed is more complex.
There is no problem to have a package which end with `-release` in a custom repository.

I would just remove that sentence. If more infos are required, i can provide them.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not create child channels containing packages that are not compatible with the client system.
====

.Procedure: Create a custom channel

. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Software[Manage > Channels], and click btn:[Create Channel].
. On the [guimenu]``Create Software Channel`` page, give your channel a name (for example, [systemitem]``My Tools SLES 15 SP1 x86_64``) and a label (for example, [systemitem]``my-tools-sles15sp1-x86_64``).

> Note that labels cannot contain space characters or capital letters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Labels must not contain space characters or capital letters.
```

> . In the [guimenu]``Parent Channel`` drop down, choose the relevant base channel (for example [systemitem]``SLE-Product-SLES15-SP1-Pool for x86_64``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the [guimenu]``Parent Channel`` drop down, choose the relevant base channel (for example, [systemitem]``SLE-Product-SLES15-SP1-Pool for x86_64``).
```

Reviewer: not a dot, though ;)

Ensure that you choose the compatible parent channel for your packages.
. In the [guimenu]``Architecture`` drop down, choose the appropriate hardware architecture (for example, [systemitem]``x86_64``).
. Provide any additional information in the contact details, channel access control, and GPG fields, as required for your environment.

> . Click btn:[Create Channel]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click btn:[Create Channel].
```
And here is the missing dot ;-)))

.Procedure: Create a software repository

. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Software[Manage > Repositories], and click btn:[Create Repository].
. On the [guimenu]``Create Repository`` page, give your repository a label (for example, [systemitem]``my-tools-sles15sp1-x86_64-repo``).

> . In the [guimenu]``Repository URL`` field, provide the path to the folder that contains the [path]``repodata`` file (for example, [systemitem]``file:///opt/mytools/``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the [guimenu]``Repository URL`` field, provide the path to the directory with the [path]``repodata`` file (for example, [systemitem]``file:///opt/mytools/``).
```

You can use any valid addressing protocol in this field.
. Uncheck the [guimenu]``Has Signed Metadata?`` check box.

> . Provide any additional information in the SSL fields, as required for your environment.

Reviewer 2: `Has signed Metadata?` and the SSL fields require more background info. It is important that customers understand when they need to use them. I will try to add the info later today.

> . Click btn:[Create Repository]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click btn:[Create Repository].
```

> . Synchronize your new repository with your custom channel by navigating to menu:Software[Manage > Channels], clicking on the name of your newly created custom channel, and navigating to the [guimenu]``Repositories`` tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Synchronize your new repository with your custom channel by navigating to menu:Software[Manage > Channels], clicking the name of your newly created custom channel, and navigating to the [guimenu]``Repositories`` tab.
```

> . Ensure the repository you want to synchronize is checked, and click btn:[Update Repositories].

Reviewer 2: By checking the checkbox, you assign the repository to the channel. This selection is permanent until you change it.
Clicking the 'Sync' button in a one time action.

Not sure if the assignment of repos to channel needs to be expressed more prominent?

Author: Split this to its own procedure and emphasised that it's about assigning, not synchronising.

. Navigate to the [guimenu]``Sync`` tab and click btn:[Sync Now] to synchronize immediately.
You can also set an automated synchronization schedule on this tab.

.Procedure: Add custom channels to an activation key

. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Systems[Activation Keys], and select the key you want to add the custom channel to.
. On the [guiemnu]``Details`` tab, in the [guimenu]``Child Channels`` listing, select the channel to associate.
You can select multiple channels, if you need to.
. Click btn:[Update Activation Key].

== Deleting Custom Channels

> You cannot delete {productname} channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot delete {productname} channels with the {webui}.
```
IIRC, there is a command line tool for this task.  (I could be wrong, though.)

Only custom channels can be deleted.

. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Software[Manage > Channels], and select the channel you want to delete.
. Click btn:[Delete software channel].
. On the [guimenu]``Delete Channel`` page, check the details of the channel you are deleting, and check the [guimenu]``Unsubscribe Systems`` checkbox to remove the custom channel from any systems that might still be subscribed.
. Click btn:[Delete Channel].

When channels are deleted, the packages that are part of the deleted channel are not automatically removed.
If you try to update packages that have had their channel deleted, it can cause errors.
In this case, you will need to manually remove the packages.

> Packages can be manually removed in the {productname} {webui} by going to menu:Systems[Systems > All] and selecting the system, navigating to the menu:States[Packages] tab, and setting the package state to [guimenu]``Removed``.

Reviewer 2: This is wrong. You do not need to remove packages from a system if it is not available in any channel.
We should just say, that you will not get updates anymore , if this is the case.

Removing packages from the SUSE Manager Server which do not belong to any channel should be explained here.
This is possible at Software => Manage => Manage Packages UI (please check the exact path on a real server).

Author: So ISTR that this got added as a result of a bug report or similar (or maybe it came from the wiki?). Your comment here makes me think that we can probably just remove it in its entirety?

Reviewer 2: Aggreed. But I think we need to explain how to remove packages which do not belong to a channel anymore. Either here or in an extra section.

> Note that removing the package using a command line package manager or the [guimenu]``Software`` menu will not permanently remove the package.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what this means. It will remove the package from the system permanently until you install it again or a dependency pulls it in.

[[custom-channel]]
= Custom Channels

While {productname} provides all required channels, you might find it useful to create custom channels specific to your environment.
{productname} Administrators and Channel Administrators have channel management authority, which gives them the ability to create and manage their own custom channels.

> Custom channels give you the ability to create your own software packages and repositories, which you can use to update your clients.

Reviewer 2: Can you read the sentence before this and this together? For me it sounds like a duplicate at least a part of the sentence. But I am not a native speaker.

Author: Yeah, I see what you're saying, but in my defence: The focus of the sentence on L5 is needing admin privs. The focus of the sentence on L7 are the types of things you can do. I'll reword :smile:
